Last time you've seen how to store the user preferred language inside the database and also we've added
this field to the user editing form so now he can store his preferred language.
Now let's see how we can actually apply this.
So let's open the terminal and we will generate our first own middleware so BGP RDM make middleware
and let's call it a local middleware so let's locate our new local middleware.
It should be inside the up HDP DTP middleware local middleware.
Now we have some nice boiler plate generated by Lavell and now this would be B before middleware so
let's take a look at this middleware diagram that we've seen before to remind ourselves how it works.
So it starts with our request.
Then the logic is being passed to that before middleware switch execute before the actual controller
or closure handling a route.
So it's passing to some middleware as defined as the before middleware and then the controller action
is executed.
And then additionally there is some after mid or worse and only then the response is being generated.
So since we actually want to do something before the user will reach an IT page.
So we want to set the language.
If it's not said we want our before middleware.
So this would mean adding this logic before we call next.
All right.
So let's start with our simple variable which would be local set to nil.
So we need to figure out somehow if the if there is any information about the local.
That should be set for the user.
So our first condition would be to do that of check.
So we verify if the user is actually authenticated so mind that we need this import of the Alpha seed.
So if the user is authenticated and we will store the actual locale for the user in the user session.
So now we have to use the session objects.
So let's add another import for the phosphate here.
And now if the session doesn't have the logo already because we do not want to override it all the time.
So we use session House which is our method to check if the session has something under the specific
key.
So in this case it's local.
So if the user is authenticated and there is no local stored inside the session yet we'll modify the
local value and we'll read it from the request user.
Remember this is fetching Rs the current user.
Alternatively you can also use our user depending on your preference.
And this will fetch as the user object which happens to have the local attribute right now.
Now will do another thing which is session put to store days inside the session.
So local both local and the variable.
Okay so let's see that again if the user is authenticated and there is no local in his session yet then
read the user preferred local from the user eloquent model as a user to as the local attribute that's
the attributes of the user model and put it to the session.
So now another condition if the user or if there happens to be a request parameter called local then
the local would actually be read from the request
so if the request has the local parameter it can be a query parameter lets you read that parameter.
And now store it inside the session.
So session put local
I'm just doing that for readability we can just immediately call session put with the value that we
read from the request.
Now why are we doing that is actually to allow users to change the language on the fly and we have what
you will see in the next lecture.
We should be to create specific links that will actually create a patch to redirect with this local
parameter depending on the url provided but you will see that in the next lecture.
Now finally we read the locale from the session so session Session get local
and if
local is normal what we will do.
So this can happen if Well there is no request parameter or user doesn't have specified preferred language
which shouldn't happen because we have a default value but well just in case we can also set local to
the default configuration value from the UP.
BHP
Well we can also use fallback locale or the local value.
Now let's see how we can do that.
So there is this config helper function which you can use and call it like up which means that up.
BHP and now dot fallback local.
So if there is nothing absolutely nothing will get the local from the config.
And now finally to set the language of the application it's actually very simple.
So we use another phosphate that up for seed.
So make sure you've added this import here and it is set local.
And now we have this variable and that's it.
Of course that's it.
With everything that we have to write inside this local middleware for it to work but of course we have
to then register this model where it won't be picked up by anything ultimately.
So to add this middleware to Lara Val and so Lavell knows that it has to use it.
We have some options available so we can add this to the middleware groups.
So all the routes that are part of the web group which happens to be everything that we define inside
the web BHP file which is for our traditional routes.
They have some middleware is defined.
Now one of those is the start session.
And since we are using the sessions inside our middleware this has to come after.
So by adding our middleware here what we will do is we will make it available make it work for every
possible route that we have defined inside web BHP.
So in our si situation that's every route.
Now you have to add this local middleware class to this Web group.
And what we can also do in.
Well in case you would like to do that so you would like to enable this middleware only for certain
controllers let's say for both controller.
So let's take a look inside it.
We register our middleware the authentication only for this controller and now in kernel the ALF is
basically a shortcut to this middleware class.
So you can also add our custom one like locale and then specify the fully qualified class name to the
to our new local middleware.
And after that you will be able to add this middleware per controller using this middleware code inside
controller and using this alliance the local that of course we do not want to do that.
We want middleware our local middleware to be global for every web route.
That's why we have added it inside the middleware groups for the web group.
Okay.
So now save the changes and let's go to our Web site.
So now when you refresh you can see that everything is in German.
And if you will try to change the language to Spanish.
Now you can see everything is in Spanish if you will change that to English.
Now everything is in English so let's change it to Spanish.
Let's log out the user.
So we see that the default is the English but if we are logging as John again.
Now the language is immediately changed to his preferred one which happens to be Spanish.
So this is our middleware in action.
OK.
Now let's take another look at our middleware.
So what you see here is well this is what makes language work.
So if the language is stored for the user.
We read it and says should set it to the session but then alternatively we also check if there is this
local parameter on the request.
So let's go to the home page.
And this is how you are the query parameter.
So if you will specify this parameter US English.
Now we can see that the page has changed to English.
Let's try with German and you can see that now everything is in German and then you do not really have
to pass this parameter around because the first time it is being found it is then stored to the user
session.
And now if you visit all the other pages.
Now everything is in German so we'll use that in the next lecture inside Apache.
So you will have links like the posts and then this will ultimately make this page in German.
So then what we will do is we will allow users to make language part of the URLs themselves without
changing a thing in light of all this would be strictly US server Apache configuration.
So let's see that in the next lecture.